help/keyboard-shortcuts.md, before:

---
id: keyboard-shortcuts
title: Keyboard Shortcuts
category: Getting Started
---

# Keyboard Shortcuts

ManagerOS includes several keyboard shortcuts to help you navigate and work more efficiently.

## Global Shortcuts

### Command Palette

- **⌘K** (Mac) / **Ctrl+K** (Windows/Linux)
- Opens the command palette where you can quickly navigate to any page or perform common actions
- Type to search for pages, people, teams, initiatives, or tasks
- Press Enter to navigate or Escape to close

### Quick Task Creation

- **Q** (anywhere in the app)
- Opens the quick task creation dialog
- Allows you to quickly create a new task without navigating to the tasks page
- Press Escape to cancel

## Navigation Tips

- Use the command palette (⌘K) to quickly jump between different sections of the app
- The command palette remembers your recent searches and frequently accessed items
- You can search for specific people, teams, or initiatives by typing their names
- Use arrow keys to navigate through search results in the command palette

## Browser Shortcuts

These standard browser shortcuts also work in ManagerOS:

- **⌘R** (Mac) / **Ctrl+R** (Windows/Linux) - Refresh the page
- **⌘L** (Mac) / **Ctrl+L** (Windows/Linux) - Focus the address bar
- **⌘T** (Mac) / **Ctrl+T** (Windows/Linux) - Open new tab
- **⌘W** (Mac) / **Ctrl+W** (Windows/Linux) - Close current tab

## Accessibility

All keyboard shortcuts are designed to work with screen readers and other assistive technologies. If you need to customize shortcuts or have accessibility concerns, please contact support.

## Tips

- The command palette is your fastest way to navigate the app
- Use Q to quickly capture tasks as they come up in meetings or conversations
- Keyboard shortcuts work consistently across all pages in ManagerOS
- You can always use the mouse if you prefer - keyboard shortcuts are optional

Commit message:

Added shortcuts for AI chat and fixed problems with initiatives

help/keyboard-shortcuts.md, after:

---
id: keyboard-shortcuts
title: Keyboard Shortcuts
category: Getting Started
---

# Keyboard Shortcuts

ManagerOS includes several keyboard shortcuts to help you navigate and work more efficiently.

## Global Shortcuts

### Command Palette

- **⌘K** (Mac) / **Ctrl+K** (Windows/Linux)
- Opens the command palette where you can quickly navigate to any page or perform common actions
- Type to search for pages, people, teams, initiatives, or tasks
- Press Enter to navigate or Escape to close

### AI Chat

- **⌘J** (Mac) / **Ctrl+J** (Windows/Linux)
- Opens the AI chat sidebar
- Allows you to quickly access the AI assistant for questions about your organization
- Press Escape to close the chat

### Quick Task Creation

- **Q** (anywhere in the app)
- Opens the quick task creation dialog
- Allows you to quickly create a new task without navigating to the tasks page
- Press Escape to cancel

## Navigation Tips

- Use the command palette (⌘K) to quickly jump between different sections of the app
- Use AI chat (⌘J) to quickly ask questions about your organization's data
- The command palette remembers your recent searches and frequently accessed items
- You can search for specific people, teams, or initiatives by typing their names
- Use arrow keys to navigate through search results in the command palette

## Browser Shortcuts

These standard browser shortcuts also work in ManagerOS:

- **⌘R** (Mac) / **Ctrl+R** (Windows/Linux) - Refresh the page
- **⌘L** (Mac) / **Ctrl+L** (Windows/Linux) - Focus the address bar
- **⌘T** (Mac) / **Ctrl+T** (Windows/Linux) - Open new tab
- **⌘W** (Mac) / **Ctrl+W** (Windows/Linux) - Close current tab

## Accessibility

All keyboard shortcuts are designed to work with screen readers and other assistive technologies. If you need to customize shortcuts or have accessibility concerns, please contact support.

## Tips

- The command palette is your fastest way to navigate the app
- Use AI chat (⌘J) to quickly get answers about your organization's data
- Use Q to quickly capture tasks as they come up in meetings or conversations
- Keyboard shortcuts work consistently across all pages in ManagerOS
- You can always use the mouse if you prefer - keyboard shortcuts are optional
