help/integrations/jira-integration.md, before:

---
id: jira-integration
title: Jira Integration
category: Integrations
---

# Jira Integration

ManagerOS integrates with Jira to provide a unified view of your team's work across both platforms.

## Setup Process

### 1. Connect Your Jira Account

- **Enter your Jira URL** (e.g., yourcompany.atlassian.net)
- **Provide authentication credentials** (API token recommended)
- **Test the connection** to ensure proper access

### 2. Link Team Members

- **Associate Jira accounts** with ManagerOS people
- **Map Jira usernames** to team member profiles
- **Verify access permissions** for each user

### 3. Configure Work Tracking

- **Select projects** to track in ManagerOS
- **Choose issue types** to include in work activity
- **Set up automatic sync** for real-time updates

## Features

### Work Activity Tracking

- **View assigned tickets** for each team member
- **Track progress** on Jira issues
- **Monitor workload** and capacity

### Status Synchronization

- **Real-time updates** from Jira to ManagerOS
- **Automatic task creation** from Jira issues
- **Progress tracking** across both platforms

## Best Practices

- **Use consistent naming** between Jira and ManagerOS
- **Regular sync** to keep data current
- **Train team members** on the integration
- **Monitor performance** and adjust as needed

Commit message:

Updated to mpath name of the app

help/integrations/jira-integration.md, after:

---
id: jira-integration
title: Jira Integration
category: Integrations
---

# Jira Integration

mpath integrates with Jira to provide a unified view of your team's work across both platforms.

## Setup Process

### 1. Connect Your Jira Account

- **Enter your Jira URL** (e.g., yourcompany.atlassian.net)
- **Provide authentication credentials** (API token recommended)
- **Test the connection** to ensure proper access

### 2. Link Team Members

- **Associate Jira accounts** with mpath people
- **Map Jira usernames** to team member profiles
- **Verify access permissions** for each user

### 3. Configure Work Tracking

- **Select projects** to track in mpath
- **Choose issue types** to include in work activity
- **Set up automatic sync** for real-time updates

## Features

### Work Activity Tracking

- **View assigned tickets** for each team member
- **Track progress** on Jira issues
- **Monitor workload** and capacity

### Status Synchronization

- **Real-time updates** from Jira to mpath
- **Automatic task creation** from Jira issues
- **Progress tracking** across both platforms

## Best Practices

- **Use consistent naming** between Jira and mpath
- **Regular sync** to keep data current
- **Train team members** on the integration
- **Monitor performance** and adjust as needed
