help/feedback-development/feedback-campaigns-and-responses.md, before:

---
id: feedback-campaigns-and-responses
title: Feedback Campaigns and Responses
category: Feedback & Development
---

# Feedback Campaigns and Responses

Feedback campaigns provide a structured way to collect comprehensive feedback from multiple sources about team members, enabling 360-degree reviews, performance evaluations, and pulse surveys.

## Campaign Types

### 360-Degree Feedback

- **Multi-source evaluation** from peers, managers, and direct reports
- **Comprehensive performance** and behavior assessment
- **Anonymous responses** to encourage honest feedback
- **Balanced perspective** on individual contributions

### Performance Reviews

- **Structured evaluation** of goals and objectives
- **Development planning** and career discussions
- **Documentation** for HR and performance records
- **Goal setting** and improvement planning

### Pulse Surveys

- **Quick check-ins** on team satisfaction and engagement
- **Regular monitoring** of team health and culture
- **Trend analysis** over time
- **Immediate feedback** on team dynamics

## Campaign Setup

### Basic Configuration

- **Campaign name** - Descriptive title for the feedback cycle
- **Target person** - Individual receiving feedback
- **Template selection** - Pre-defined question sets
- **Date range** - Start and end dates for responses
- **Status management** - Draft, active, completed, cancelled

### Participant Management

- **Invite list** - Email addresses of feedback providers
- **Role-based invitations** - Peers, managers, direct reports
- **External participants** - Clients, partners, stakeholders
- **Anonymous options** - Protect responder identity

### Template System

- **Pre-built templates** for common feedback scenarios
- **Customizable questions** for specific needs
- **Rating scales** and open-ended responses
- **Consistent format** across campaigns

## Response Collection

### Invitation Process

- **Email invitations** sent to all participants
- **Unique invite links** for secure access
- **Reminder notifications** for incomplete responses
- **Deadline management** and extensions

### Response Interface

- **User-friendly forms** for easy completion
- **Progress tracking** through multi-step surveys
- **Save and resume** functionality
- **Mobile-responsive** design for accessibility

### Response Management

- **Real-time tracking** of response completion
- **Duplicate prevention** - one response per email
- **Response validation** and quality checks
- **Anonymous response** handling

## Response Analysis

### Data Collection

- **Structured responses** in JSON format
- **Response metadata** including timestamps
- **Participant information** (when not anonymous)
- **Campaign context** and target person details

### Analysis Features

- **Quantitative analysis** of rating scales
- **Qualitative insights** from open-ended responses
- **Trend identification** across multiple campaigns
- **Comparative analysis** between team members

### Reporting

- **Summary reports** for managers and HR
- **Individual feedback** summaries for recipients
- **Team insights** and organizational patterns
- **Actionable recommendations** based on data

## Privacy and Security

### Data Protection

- **Encrypted storage** of sensitive feedback
- **Access controls** based on organizational roles
- **Audit trails** for compliance requirements
- **Data retention** policies and cleanup

### Anonymity Options

- **Anonymous responses** to encourage honesty
- **Aggregated reporting** to protect individual identity
- **Minimum response thresholds** for statistical validity
- **Confidential handling** of sensitive feedback

### Compliance

- **GDPR compliance** for European users
- **Data minimization** principles
- **Right to deletion** and data portability
- **Consent management** for data processing

## Best Practices

### Campaign Design

- **Clear objectives** and expected outcomes
- **Appropriate question selection** for the context
- **Balanced participant mix** for comprehensive feedback
- **Realistic timelines** for response collection

### Participant Engagement

- **Clear communication** about purpose and process
- **Sufficient time** for thoughtful responses
- **Regular reminders** without being intrusive
- **Appreciation** for participation and effort

### Response Quality

- **Specific examples** rather than general statements
- **Constructive feedback** focused on improvement
- **Balanced perspective** highlighting both strengths and areas for growth
- **Actionable insights** that can drive development

### Follow-up Actions

- **Timely sharing** of results with recipients
- **Development planning** based on feedback
- **Goal setting** and improvement strategies
- **Regular check-ins** on progress

## Integration Features

### Performance Management

- **Link to performance reviews** and evaluations
- **Goal setting** based on feedback insights
- **Development planning** and career discussions
- **Progress tracking** over time

### Team Development

- **Team-level insights** from aggregated feedback
- **Training needs** identification
- **Culture assessment** and improvement
- **Organizational development** planning

### HR Integration

- **Performance records** and documentation
- **Talent management** and succession planning
- **Compensation decisions** and promotions
- **Compliance reporting** and audits

## Troubleshooting

### Low Response Rates

- **Review invitation timing** and frequency
- **Simplify questions** and reduce complexity
- **Provide clear value** proposition for participants
- **Offer incentives** or recognition for participation

### Technical Issues

- **Test invite links** before sending campaigns
- **Verify email delivery** and spam filters
- **Check mobile compatibility** of response forms
- **Monitor system performance** during peak usage

### Data Quality

- **Validate responses** for completeness and relevance
- **Filter out spam** or inappropriate content
- **Ensure anonymity** when promised
- **Maintain data integrity** throughout the process

Commit message:

feat(email): Implement Resend API for email notifications in feedback campaigns, including invite and reminder emails, and update related configurations and documentation

help/feedback-development/feedback-campaigns-and-responses.md, after:

---
id: feedback-campaigns-and-responses
title: Feedback Campaigns and Responses
category: Feedback & Development
---

# Feedback Campaigns and Responses

Feedback campaigns provide a structured way to collect comprehensive feedback from multiple sources about team members, enabling 360-degree reviews, performance evaluations, and pulse surveys.

## Campaign Types

### 360-Degree Feedback

- **Multi-source evaluation** from peers, managers, and direct reports
- **Comprehensive performance** and behavior assessment
- **Anonymous responses** to encourage honest feedback
- **Balanced perspective** on individual contributions

### Performance Reviews

- **Structured evaluation** of goals and objectives
- **Development planning** and career discussions
- **Documentation** for HR and performance records
- **Goal setting** and improvement planning

### Pulse Surveys

- **Quick check-ins** on team satisfaction and engagement
- **Regular monitoring** of team health and culture
- **Trend analysis** over time
- **Immediate feedback** on team dynamics

## Campaign Setup

### Basic Configuration

- **Campaign name** - Descriptive title for the feedback cycle
- **Target person** - Individual receiving feedback
- **Template selection** - Pre-defined question sets
- **Date range** - Start and end dates for responses
- **Status management** - Draft, active, completed, cancelled

### Participant Management

- **Invite list** - Email addresses of feedback providers
- **Role-based invitations** - Peers, managers, direct reports
- **External participants** - Clients, partners, stakeholders
- **Anonymous options** - Protect responder identity

### Template System

- **Pre-built templates** for common feedback scenarios
- **Customizable questions** for specific needs
- **Rating scales** and open-ended responses
- **Consistent format** across campaigns

## Response Collection

### Invitation Process

- **Email invitations** - Optional email notifications sent to all participants
- **Unique invite links** for secure access
- **Manual reminder emails** - Send reminders to participants who haven't responded
- **Email tracking** - View when invites and reminders were sent
- **Deadline management** and extensions

### Email Notifications

Feedback campaigns support optional email notifications to help increase response rates:

- **Initial Invites**: Send invitation emails to all participants when the campaign is created or activated
  - Only available for draft or active campaigns
  - Can only be sent once per campaign
  - Includes campaign details, target person name, and feedback link
- **Reminder Emails**: Send follow-up reminders to participants who haven't responded
  - Only available for active campaigns
  - Automatically filters out participants who have already responded
  - Can be sent multiple times as needed
  - Includes days remaining information when applicable

- **Email Status Tracking**: View when emails were sent to each participant
  - See invite sent dates in the invitee list
  - Track reminder history for each participant
  - Monitor email delivery status

To send emails:

1. Navigate to the campaign detail page
2. Find the "Email Notifications" section
3. Click "Send Invites" to send initial invitations (if not already sent)
4. Click "Send Reminder" to send reminders to non-responders (for active campaigns)

### Response Interface

- **User-friendly forms** for easy completion
- **Progress tracking** through multi-step surveys
- **Save and resume** functionality
- **Mobile-responsive** design for accessibility

### Response Management

- **Real-time tracking** of response completion
- **Duplicate prevention** - one response per email
- **Response validation** and quality checks
- **Anonymous response** handling

## Response Analysis

### Data Collection

- **Structured responses** in JSON format
- **Response metadata** including timestamps
- **Participant information** (when not anonymous)
- **Campaign context** and target person details

### Analysis Features

- **Quantitative analysis** of rating scales
- **Qualitative insights** from open-ended responses
- **Trend identification** across multiple campaigns
- **Comparative analysis** between team members

### Reporting

- **Summary reports** for managers and HR
- **Individual feedback** summaries for recipients
- **Team insights** and organizational patterns
- **Actionable recommendations** based on data

## Privacy and Security

### Data Protection

- **Encrypted storage** of sensitive feedback
- **Access controls** based on organizational roles
- **Audit trails** for compliance requirements
- **Data retention** policies and cleanup

### Anonymity Options

- **Anonymous responses** to encourage honesty
- **Aggregated reporting** to protect individual identity
- **Minimum response thresholds** for statistical validity
- **Confidential handling** of sensitive feedback

### Compliance

- **GDPR compliance** for European users
- **Data minimization** principles
- **Right to deletion** and data portability
- **Consent management** for data processing

## Best Practices

### Campaign Design

- **Clear objectives** and expected outcomes
- **Appropriate question selection** for the context
- **Balanced participant mix** for comprehensive feedback
- **Realistic timelines** for response collection

### Participant Engagement

- **Clear communication** about purpose and process
- **Sufficient time** for thoughtful responses
- **Regular reminders** without being intrusive
- **Appreciation** for participation and effort

### Response Quality

- **Specific examples** rather than general statements
- **Constructive feedback** focused on improvement
- **Balanced perspective** highlighting both strengths and areas for growth
- **Actionable insights** that can drive development

### Follow-up Actions

- **Timely sharing** of results with recipients
- **Development planning** based on feedback
- **Goal setting** and improvement strategies
- **Regular check-ins** on progress

## Integration Features

### Performance Management

- **Link to performance reviews** and evaluations
- **Goal setting** based on feedback insights
- **Development planning** and career discussions
- **Progress tracking** over time

### Team Development

- **Team-level insights** from aggregated feedback
- **Training needs** identification
- **Culture assessment** and improvement
- **Organizational development** planning

### HR Integration

- **Performance records** and documentation
- **Talent management** and succession planning
- **Compensation decisions** and promotions
- **Compliance reporting** and audits

## Troubleshooting

### Low Response Rates

- **Review invitation timing** and frequency
- **Simplify questions** and reduce complexity
- **Provide clear value** proposition for participants
- **Offer incentives** or recognition for participation

### Technical Issues

- **Test invite links** before sending campaigns
- **Verify email delivery** and spam filters
- **Check mobile compatibility** of response forms
- **Monitor system performance** during peak usage

### Data Quality

- **Validate responses** for completeness and relevance
- **Filter out spam** or inappropriate content
- **Ensure anonymity** when promised
- **Maintain data integrity** throughout the process
