docs/staging-workflow.md, before:

# Staging Workflow and Database Migration Management

## Overview

ManagerOS uses a staging-based development workflow where all development work happens in the `staging` branch. This workflow ensures that version increments and database migrations are properly managed before being deployed to production.

## Development Workflow

### Branch Strategy

- **`staging`**: Primary development branch where all feature work happens
- **`main`**: Production branch that receives merges from `staging`
- **Feature branches**: Optional, can be created from `staging` for larger features

### Development Process

1. **Create Feature Branch** (optional):

   ```bash
   git checkout staging
   git pull origin staging
   git checkout -b feature/my-feature
   ```

2. **Make Changes**: Implement your feature, including any necessary database schema changes

3. **Create Database Migrations**:

   ```bash
   # After modifying prisma/schema.prisma
   bunx prisma migrate dev --name descriptive_migration_name
   ```

   This will:
   - Create a new migration file in `prisma/migrations/`
   - Apply the migration to your local dev database
   - Update the Prisma client

4. **Version Bump** (when adding features):

   ```bash
   # Bump version as you add features
   bun run version:patch   # For bug fixes and minor changes
   bun run version:minor   # For new features
   bun run version:major   # For breaking changes
   ```

   **Note**: Version bumps happen during development in staging, not during release.

5. **Commit and Push**:

   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "feat: add new feature"
   git push origin feature/my-feature  # or staging if working directly
   ```

6. **Merge to Staging**: Create a PR to merge your feature branch into `staging`, or push directly to `staging` if working there.

## Version Management

### Automatic Version Determination

Version increments are automatically determined by release-it when merging `staging` to `main`. The system analyzes commit messages since the last release tag using the Conventional Commits specification:

- **Major**: Commits with `BREAKING CHANGE:` or `!` (e.g., `feat!: remove API`)
- **Minor**: Commits with `feat:` prefix (e.g., `feat: add dashboard`)
- **Patch**: Commits with `fix:` or other types (e.g., `fix: resolve bug`)

The highest increment type found determines the version bump. For example, if you have both `feat:` and `fix:` commits, it will bump the minor version.

**No manual version bumping required**: Simply use conventional commit messages, and release-it will handle version increments automatically.

**Commit Message Guidelines:**

- **Patch**: Use `fix:` for bug fixes, or `chore:`, `docs:`, `style:`, `refactor:`, `perf:`, `test:` for other changes
- **Minor**: Use `feat:` for new features that are backward compatible
- **Major**: Use `feat!:` or include `BREAKING CHANGE:` in the commit body for breaking changes

**Example workflow:**

```bash
# Working on a new feature
git checkout staging
# ... make changes ...
git add .
git commit -m "feat: add user dashboard"  # Automatic minor version bump
git push origin staging
```

### Version in Production

When `staging` is merged to `main`, release-it automatically:

- Analyzes all commits since the last release tag
- Determines the appropriate version bump based on commit types
- Updates `package.json` with the new version
- Creates a release tag and GitHub release
- Generates a changelog from conventional commits

## Database Migrations

### Creating Migrations

All database migrations are created in the `staging` branch using Prisma's migration system:

```bash
# 1. Modify prisma/schema.prisma with your changes
# 2. Create and apply migration
bunx prisma migrate dev --name add_user_preferences

# This creates:
# - prisma/migrations/YYYYMMDDHHMMSS_add_user_preferences/migration.sql
# - Updates your local dev database
```

### Migration Files

- All migration files are committed to version control in `prisma/migrations/`
- Migration files are included in both staging and production builds
- Migrations are applied in order based on their timestamp

### Staging/Dev Database

- **Environment**: Staging uses the development database
- **Configuration**: Set via `DATABASE_URL` environment variable in staging environment
- **Migrations**: Applied during development using `prisma migrate dev`

### Production Database

- **Environment**: Production uses the production database
- **Configuration**: Set via `DATABASE_URL` environment variable in production environment
- **Migrations**: Automatically applied during Vercel build using `prisma migrate deploy`

## Production Deployment

### Automatic Migration Application

When code is deployed to production (via Vercel), the build process automatically:

1. Generates Prisma client: `bunx prisma generate`
2. Applies pending migrations: `bunx prisma migrate deploy`
3. Builds the application: `next build --turbo`

**Important**: `prisma migrate deploy` is production-safe:

- Only applies migrations that haven't been applied yet
- Safe to run multiple times
- Designed specifically for production environments
- Will not create new migrations or modify existing ones

### Deployment Flow

```text
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ 1. Development in staging branch                       │
│    - Create migrations with prisma migrate dev         │
│    - Use conventional commit messages (feat:, fix:)    │
│    - Commit migration files and code                   │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
                     ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ 2. Merge staging → main                                 │
│    - Migration files included in merge                 │
│    - Version already bumped in staging                  │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
                     ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ 3. GitHub Action triggers release                       │
│    - Creates release tag                                 │
│    - Creates GitHub release                             │
│    - Pushes to main with "chore: release" commit        │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
                     ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ 4. Vercel builds production                             │
│    - bunx prisma generate                                │
│    - bunx prisma migrate deploy (applies migrations)    │
│    - next build --turbo                                  │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Best Practices

### Migration Best Practices

1. **Always create migrations in staging**: Never create migrations directly in production
2. **Test migrations locally**: Ensure migrations work correctly in your dev environment
3. **Review migration files**: Check the generated SQL in `prisma/migrations/` before committing
4. **Descriptive names**: Use clear, descriptive names for migrations
5. **One feature per migration**: Keep migrations focused on a single change when possible

### Version Bumping Best Practices

1. **Bump as you develop**: Increment version when adding features, not just at release time
2. **Use appropriate increment**: Choose patch/minor/major based on the type of change
3. **Commit version with feature**: Include version bump in the same commit as the feature
4. **Document breaking changes**: If using major version, document what breaks

### Workflow Best Practices

1. **Keep staging up to date**: Regularly sync with main to avoid conflicts
2. **Test before merging**: Ensure all migrations work and tests pass before merging to main
3. **Monitor production builds**: Watch Vercel build logs to ensure migrations apply successfully
4. **Backup before major migrations**: Consider backing up production database before large schema changes

## Troubleshooting

### Migration Issues

**Problem**: Migration fails during production build

**Solution**:

- Check Vercel build logs for specific error
- Verify migration SQL is correct
- Ensure database connection is properly configured
- Test migration locally first

**Problem**: Migration already applied error

**Solution**: This is normal - `prisma migrate deploy` will skip already-applied migrations. No action needed.

### Version Conflicts

**Problem**: Version already bumped when merging to main

**Solution**: This is expected behavior. The release workflow will handle the already-bumped version correctly.

## Environment Configuration

### Staging Environment

- **Database**: Development database (configured in Vercel staging environment)
- **Clerk**: Development Clerk instance
- **Purpose**: Testing and development

### Production Environment

- **Database**: Production database (configured in Vercel production environment)
- **Clerk**: Production Clerk instance
- **Purpose**: Live application

Both environments use the same codebase and migration files, but connect to different databases configured via environment variables.

Commit message:

11/11/2025 (#79)
* chore(cicd): Update staging with new version number after release

* (chore) Cleanup the dashboard and sidebar a little

* chore: fix build error

* feat(ui): Add a highlight color to various places in the UI

* chore(initiatives): Changed the way that data is fetched for the initiatve detail view

* chore(ui): Update the section headers in light mode to have a background.

Also update the initiatives to remove the borders on the sidebar sections

* chore(initiatives): Converted the checkins list to use the simple list items instead of the custom thing we were seeing before

* chore: Cleaned up the loading skeletons for the person detail view

* chore: Minor ui changes throughout

* fix: Fix the look and feel of the people import page/form

* chore: Update the teams and people org chart and import form pages with the standard layouts and look

* chore(ui): Fix an issue with button text color on hover

* chore(testing): Added support for playwright tests

* fix(feedback): Make it possible to access feedback forms without logging in

---------

Co-authored-by: ManagerOS Release Bot <github-actions@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/staging-workflow.md, after:

# Staging Workflow and Database Migration Management

## Overview

ManagerOS uses a staging-based development workflow where all development work happens in the `staging` branch. This workflow ensures that version increments and database migrations are properly managed before being deployed to production.

## Development Workflow

### Branch Strategy

- **`staging`**: Primary development branch where all feature work happens
- **`main`**: Production branch that receives merges from `staging`
- **Feature branches**: Optional, can be created from `staging` for larger features

### Development Process

1. **Create Feature Branch** (optional):

   ```bash
   git checkout staging
   git pull origin staging
   git checkout -b feature/my-feature
   ```

2. **Make Changes**: Implement your feature, including any necessary database schema changes

3. **Create Database Migrations**:

   ```bash
   # After modifying prisma/schema.prisma
   bunx prisma migrate dev --name descriptive_migration_name
   ```

   This will:
   - Create a new migration file in `prisma/migrations/`
   - Apply the migration to your local dev database
   - Update the Prisma client

4. **Version Bump** (when adding features):

   ```bash
   # Bump version as you add features
   bun run version:patch   # For bug fixes and minor changes
   bun run version:minor   # For new features
   bun run version:major   # For breaking changes
   ```

   **Note**: Version bumps happen during development in staging, not during release.

5. **Commit and Push**:

   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "feat: add new feature"
   git push origin feature/my-feature  # or staging if working directly
   ```

6. **Merge to Staging**: Create a PR to merge your feature branch into `staging`, or push directly to `staging` if working there.

## Version Management

### Automatic Version Determination

Version increments are automatically determined by release-it when merging `staging` to `main`. The system analyzes commit messages since the last release tag using the Conventional Commits specification:

- **Major**: Commits with `BREAKING CHANGE:` or `!` (e.g., `feat!: remove API`)
- **Minor**: Commits with `feat:` prefix (e.g., `feat: add dashboard`)
- **Patch**: Commits with `fix:` or other types (e.g., `fix: resolve bug`)

The highest increment type found determines the version bump. For example, if you have both `feat:` and `fix:` commits, it will bump the minor version.

**No manual version bumping required**: Simply use conventional commit messages, and release-it will handle version increments automatically.

**Commit Message Guidelines:**

- **Patch**: Use `fix:` for bug fixes, or `chore:`, `docs:`, `style:`, `refactor:`, `perf:`, `test:` for other changes
- **Minor**: Use `feat:` for new features that are backward compatible
- **Major**: Use `feat!:` or include `BREAKING CHANGE:` in the commit body for breaking changes

**Example workflow:**

```bash
# Working on a new feature
git checkout staging
# ... make changes ...
git add .
git commit -m "feat: add user dashboard"  # Automatic minor version bump
git push origin staging
```

### Version in Production

When `staging` is merged to `main`, release-it automatically:

- Analyzes all commits since the last release tag
- Determines the appropriate version bump based on commit types
- Updates `package.json` with the new version
- Creates a release tag and GitHub release
- Generates a changelog from conventional commits

Then Vercel will build the production application.

Currently, migrations are not applied automatically.

## Database Migrations

### Creating Migrations

All database migrations are created in the `staging` branch using Prisma's migration system:

```bash
# 1. Modify prisma/schema.prisma with your changes
# 2. Create and apply migration
bunx prisma migrate dev --name add_user_preferences

# This creates:
# - prisma/migrations/YYYYMMDDHHMMSS_add_user_preferences/migration.sql
# - Updates your local dev database
```

### Migration Files

- All migration files are committed to version control in `prisma/migrations/`
- Migration files are included in both staging and production builds
- Migrations are applied in order based on their timestamp

### Staging/Dev Database

- **Environment**: Staging uses the development database
- **Configuration**: Set via `DATABASE_URL` environment variable in staging environment
- **Migrations**: Applied during development using `prisma migrate dev`

### Production Database

- **Environment**: Production uses the production database
- **Configuration**: Set via `DATABASE_URL` environment variable in production environment
- **Migrations**: Automatically applied during Vercel build using `prisma migrate deploy`

## Production Deployment

### Automatic Migration Application

When code is deployed to production (via Vercel), the build process automatically:

1. Generates Prisma client: `bunx prisma generate`
2. Applies pending migrations: `bunx prisma migrate deploy`
3. Builds the application: `next build --turbo`

**Important**: `prisma migrate deploy` is production-safe:

- Only applies migrations that haven't been applied yet
- Safe to run multiple times
- Designed specifically for production environments
- Will not create new migrations or modify existing ones

### Deployment Flow

```text
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ 1. Development in staging branch                       │
│    - Create migrations with prisma migrate dev         │
│    - Use conventional commit messages (feat:, fix:)    │
│    - Commit migration files and code                   │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
                     ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ 2. Merge staging → main                                 │
│    - Migration files included in merge                 │
│    - Version already bumped in staging                  │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
                     ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ 3. GitHub Action triggers release                       │
│    - Creates release tag                                 │
│    - Creates GitHub release                             │
│    - Pushes to main with "chore: release" commit        │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
                     ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ 4. Vercel builds production                             │
│    - bunx prisma generate                                │
│    - bunx prisma migrate deploy (applies migrations)    │
│    - next build --turbo                                  │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Best Practices

### Migration Best Practices

1. **Always create migrations in staging**: Never create migrations directly in production
2. **Test migrations locally**: Ensure migrations work correctly in your dev environment
3. **Review migration files**: Check the generated SQL in `prisma/migrations/` before committing
4. **Descriptive names**: Use clear, descriptive names for migrations
5. **One feature per migration**: Keep migrations focused on a single change when possible

### Version Bumping Best Practices

1. **Bump as you develop**: Increment version when adding features, not just at release time
2. **Use appropriate increment**: Choose patch/minor/major based on the type of change
3. **Commit version with feature**: Include version bump in the same commit as the feature
4. **Document breaking changes**: If using major version, document what breaks

### Workflow Best Practices

1. **Keep staging up to date**: Regularly sync with main to avoid conflicts
2. **Test before merging**: Ensure all migrations work and tests pass before merging to main
3. **Monitor production builds**: Watch Vercel build logs to ensure migrations apply successfully
4. **Backup before major migrations**: Consider backing up production database before large schema changes

## Troubleshooting

### Migration Issues

**Problem**: Migration fails during production build

**Solution**:

- Check Vercel build logs for specific error
- Verify migration SQL is correct
- Ensure database connection is properly configured
- Test migration locally first

**Problem**: Migration already applied error

**Solution**: This is normal - `prisma migrate deploy` will skip already-applied migrations. No action needed.

### Version Conflicts

**Problem**: Version already bumped when merging to main

**Solution**: This is expected behavior. The release workflow will handle the already-bumped version correctly.

## Environment Configuration

### Staging Environment

- **Database**: Development database (configured in Vercel staging environment)
- **Clerk**: Development Clerk instance
- **Purpose**: Testing and development

### Production Environment

- **Database**: Production database (configured in Vercel production environment)
- **Clerk**: Production Clerk instance
- **Purpose**: Live application

Both environments use the same codebase and migration files, but connect to different databases configured via environment variables.
